src/README.md, before:

# Component: `dns-primary`

This component is responsible for provisioning the primary DNS zones into an AWS account. By convention, we typically provision the primary DNS zones in the `dns` account. The primary account for branded zones (e.g. `example.com`), however, would be in the `prod` account, while staging zone (e.g. `example.qa`) might be in the `staging` account.

The zones from the primary DNS zone are then expected to be delegated to other accounts via [the `dns-delegated` component](https://github.com/cloudposse/terraform-aws-components/tree/master/modules/dns-delegated). Additionally, external records can be created on the primary DNS zones via the `record_config` variable.


## Usage

**Stack Level**: Global

Here's an example snippet for how to use this component. This component should only be applied once as the DNS zones it creates are global. This is typically done via the DNS stack (e.g. `gbl-dns.yaml`).

```yaml
components:
  terraform:
    dns-primary:
      vars:
        domain_names:
          - example.net
        record_config:
          - root_zone: example.net
            name: ""
            type: A
            ttl: 60
            records:
              - 53.229.170.215
          - root_zone: example.net
            name: www
            type: CNAME
            ttl: 60
            records:
              - example.net
```

<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | >= 1.0.0 |
| <a name="requirement_aws"></a> [aws](#requirement\_aws) | >= 4.9.0 |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | >= 4.9.0 |

## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_acm"></a> [acm](#module\_acm) | cloudposse/acm-request-certificate/aws | 0.16.2 |
| <a name="module_iam_roles"></a> [iam\_roles](#module\_iam\_roles) | ../account-map/modules/iam-roles | n/a |
| <a name="module_this"></a> [this](#module\_this) | cloudposse/label/null | 0.25.0 |

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_route53_record.aliasrec](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.dnsrec](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.soa](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_route53_zone.root](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_zone) | resource |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_additional_tag_map"></a> [additional\_tag\_map](#input\_additional\_tag\_map) | Additional key-value pairs to add to each map in `tags_as_list_of_maps`. Not added to `tags` or `id`.<br>This is for some rare cases where resources want additional configuration of tags<br>and therefore take a list of maps with tag key, value, and additional configuration. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_alias_record_config"></a> [alias\_record\_config](#input\_alias\_record\_config) | DNS Alias Record config | <pre>list(object({<br>    root_zone              = string<br>    name                   = string<br>    type                   = string<br>    zone_id                = string<br>    record                 = string<br>    evaluate_target_health = bool<br>  }))</pre> | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_attributes"></a> [attributes](#input\_attributes) | ID element. Additional attributes (e.g. `workers` or `cluster`) to add to `id`,<br>in the order they appear in the list. New attributes are appended to the<br>end of the list. The elements of the list are joined by the `delimiter`<br>and treated as a single ID element. | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_context"></a> [context](#input\_context) | Single object for setting entire context at once.<br>See description of individual variables for details.<br>Leave string and numeric variables as `null` to use default value.<br>Individual variable settings (non-null) override settings in context object,<br>except for attributes, tags, and additional\_tag\_map, which are merged. | `any` | <pre>{<br>  "additional_tag_map": {},<br>  "attributes": [],<br>  "delimiter": null,<br>  "descriptor_formats": {},<br>  "enabled": true,<br>  "environment": null,<br>  "id_length_limit": null,<br>  "label_key_case": null,<br>  "label_order": [],<br>  "label_value_case": null,<br>  "labels_as_tags": [<br>    "unset"<br>  ],<br>  "name": null,<br>  "namespace": null,<br>  "regex_replace_chars": null,<br>  "stage": null,<br>  "tags": {},<br>  "tenant": null<br>}</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_delimiter"></a> [delimiter](#input\_delimiter) | Delimiter to be used between ID elements.<br>Defaults to `-` (hyphen). Set to `""` to use no delimiter at all. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_descriptor_formats"></a> [descriptor\_formats](#input\_descriptor\_formats) | Describe additional descriptors to be output in the `descriptors` output map.<br>Map of maps. Keys are names of descriptors. Values are maps of the form<br>`{<br>   format = string<br>   labels = list(string)<br>}`<br>(Type is `any` so the map values can later be enhanced to provide additional options.)<br>`format` is a Terraform format string to be passed to the `format()` function.<br>`labels` is a list of labels, in order, to pass to `format()` function.<br>Label values will be normalized before being passed to `format()` so they will be<br>identical to how they appear in `id`.<br>Default is `{}` (`descriptors` output will be empty). | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_dns_soa_config"></a> [dns\_soa\_config](#input\_dns\_soa\_config) | Root domain name DNS SOA record:<br>- awsdns-hostmaster.amazon.com. ; AWS default value for administrator email address<br>- 1 ; serial number, not used by AWS<br>- 7200 ; refresh time in seconds for secondary DNS servers to refreh SOA record<br>- 900 ; retry time in seconds for secondary DNS servers to retry failed SOA record update<br>- 1209600 ; expire time in seconds (1209600 is 2 weeks) for secondary DNS servers to remove SOA record if they cannot refresh it<br>- 60 ; nxdomain TTL, or time in seconds for secondary DNS servers to cache negative responses<br>See [SOA Record Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/SOA-NSrecords.html) for more information. | `string` | `"awsdns-hostmaster.amazon.com. 1 7200 900 1209600 60"` | no |
| <a name="input_domain_names"></a> [domain\_names](#input\_domain\_names) | Root domain name list, e.g. `["example.net"]` | `list(string)` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_enabled"></a> [enabled](#input\_enabled) | Set to false to prevent the module from creating any resources | `bool` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_environment"></a> [environment](#input\_environment) | ID element. Usually used for region e.g. 'uw2', 'us-west-2', OR role 'prod', 'staging', 'dev', 'UAT' | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_id_length_limit"></a> [id\_length\_limit](#input\_id\_length\_limit) | Limit `id` to this many characters (minimum 6).<br>Set to `0` for unlimited length.<br>Set to `null` for keep the existing setting, which defaults to `0`.<br>Does not affect `id_full`. | `number` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_import_profile_name"></a> [import\_profile\_name](#input\_import\_profile\_name) | AWS Profile name to use when importing a resource | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_import_role_arn"></a> [import\_role\_arn](#input\_import\_role\_arn) | IAM Role ARN to use when importing a resource | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_label_key_case"></a> [label\_key\_case](#input\_label\_key\_case) | Controls the letter case of the `tags` keys (label names) for tags generated by this module.<br>Does not affect keys of tags passed in via the `tags` input.<br>Possible values: `lower`, `title`, `upper`.<br>Default value: `title`. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_label_order"></a> [label\_order](#input\_label\_order) | The order in which the labels (ID elements) appear in the `id`.<br>Defaults to ["namespace", "environment", "stage", "name", "attributes"].<br>You can omit any of the 6 labels ("tenant" is the 6th), but at least one must be present. | `list(string)` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_label_value_case"></a> [label\_value\_case](#input\_label\_value\_case) | Controls the letter case of ID elements (labels) as included in `id`,<br>set as tag values, and output by this module individually.<br>Does not affect values of tags passed in via the `tags` input.<br>Possible values: `lower`, `title`, `upper` and `none` (no transformation).<br>Set this to `title` and set `delimiter` to `""` to yield Pascal Case IDs.<br>Default value: `lower`. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_labels_as_tags"></a> [labels\_as\_tags](#input\_labels\_as\_tags) | Set of labels (ID elements) to include as tags in the `tags` output.<br>Default is to include all labels.<br>Tags with empty values will not be included in the `tags` output.<br>Set to `[]` to suppress all generated tags.<br>**Notes:**<br>  The value of the `name` tag, if included, will be the `id`, not the `name`.<br>  Unlike other `null-label` inputs, the initial setting of `labels_as_tags` cannot be<br>  changed in later chained modules. Attempts to change it will be silently ignored. | `set(string)` | <pre>[<br>  "default"<br>]</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_name"></a> [name](#input\_name) | ID element. Usually the component or solution name, e.g. 'app' or 'jenkins'.<br>This is the only ID element not also included as a `tag`.<br>The "name" tag is set to the full `id` string. There is no tag with the value of the `name` input. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_namespace"></a> [namespace](#input\_namespace) | ID element. Usually an abbreviation of your organization name, e.g. 'eg' or 'cp', to help ensure generated IDs are globally unique | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_record_config"></a> [record\_config](#input\_record\_config) | DNS Record config | <pre>list(object({<br>    root_zone = string<br>    name      = string<br>    type      = string<br>    ttl       = string<br>    records   = list(string)<br>  }))</pre> | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_regex_replace_chars"></a> [regex\_replace\_chars](#input\_regex\_replace\_chars) | Terraform regular expression (regex) string.<br>Characters matching the regex will be removed from the ID elements.<br>If not set, `"/[^a-zA-Z0-9-]/"` is used to remove all characters other than hyphens, letters and digits. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_region"></a> [region](#input\_region) | AWS Region | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_request_acm_certificate"></a> [request\_acm\_certificate](#input\_request\_acm\_certificate) | Whether or not to request an ACM certificate for each domain | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_stage"></a> [stage](#input\_stage) | ID element. Usually used to indicate role, e.g. 'prod', 'staging', 'source', 'build', 'test', 'deploy', 'release' | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags) | Additional tags (e.g. `{'BusinessUnit': 'XYZ'}`).<br>Neither the tag keys nor the tag values will be modified by this module. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_tenant"></a> [tenant](#input\_tenant) | ID element \_(Rarely used, not included by default)\_. A customer identifier, indicating who this instance of a resource is for | `string` | `null` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_acms"></a> [acms](#output\_acms) | ACM certificates for domains |
| <a name="output_zones"></a> [zones](#output\_zones) | DNS zones |
<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->

## References
* [cloudposse/terraform-aws-components](https://github.com/cloudposse/terraform-aws-components/tree/master/modules/dns-primary) - Cloud Posse's upstream component

[<img src="https://cloudposse.com/logo-300x69.svg" height="32" align="right"/>](https://cpco.io/component)

Commit message:

Update several component Readmes (https://github.com/cloudposse/terraform-aws-components/pull/611)

src/README.md, after:

# Component: `dns-primary`

This component is responsible for provisioning the primary DNS zones into an AWS account. By convention, we typically provision the primary DNS zones in the `dns` account. The primary account for branded zones (e.g. `example.com`), however, would be in the `prod` account, while staging zone (e.g. `example.qa`) might be in the `staging` account.

The zones from the primary DNS zone are then expected to be delegated to other accounts via [the `dns-delegated` component](https://github.com/cloudposse/terraform-aws-components/tree/master/modules/dns-delegated). Additionally, external records can be created on the primary DNS zones via the `record_config` variable.


## Usage

**Stack Level**: Global

Here's an example snippet for how to use this component. This component should only be applied once as the DNS zones it creates are global. This is typically done via the DNS stack (e.g. `gbl-dns.yaml`).

```yaml
components:
  terraform:
    dns-primary:
      vars:
        domain_names:
          - example.net
        record_config:
          - root_zone: example.net
            name: ""
            type: A
            ttl: 60
            records:
              - 53.229.170.215
          - root_zone: example.net
            name: www
            type: CNAME
            ttl: 60
            records:
              - example.net
```

:::info
Use the [acm](/reference-architecture/components/acm)  component for more advanced certificate requirements.

:::

<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
## Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | >= 1.0.0 |
| <a name="requirement_aws"></a> [aws](#requirement\_aws) | >= 4.9.0 |

## Providers

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="provider_aws"></a> [aws](#provider\_aws) | >= 4.9.0 |

## Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_acm"></a> [acm](#module\_acm) | cloudposse/acm-request-certificate/aws | 0.16.2 |
| <a name="module_iam_roles"></a> [iam\_roles](#module\_iam\_roles) | ../account-map/modules/iam-roles | n/a |
| <a name="module_this"></a> [this](#module\_this) | cloudposse/label/null | 0.25.0 |

## Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [aws_route53_record.aliasrec](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.dnsrec](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_route53_record.soa](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_record) | resource |
| [aws_route53_zone.root](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route53_zone) | resource |

## Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_additional_tag_map"></a> [additional\_tag\_map](#input\_additional\_tag\_map) | Additional key-value pairs to add to each map in `tags_as_list_of_maps`. Not added to `tags` or `id`.<br>This is for some rare cases where resources want additional configuration of tags<br>and therefore take a list of maps with tag key, value, and additional configuration. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_alias_record_config"></a> [alias\_record\_config](#input\_alias\_record\_config) | DNS Alias Record config | <pre>list(object({<br>    root_zone              = string<br>    name                   = string<br>    type                   = string<br>    zone_id                = string<br>    record                 = string<br>    evaluate_target_health = bool<br>  }))</pre> | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_attributes"></a> [attributes](#input\_attributes) | ID element. Additional attributes (e.g. `workers` or `cluster`) to add to `id`,<br>in the order they appear in the list. New attributes are appended to the<br>end of the list. The elements of the list are joined by the `delimiter`<br>and treated as a single ID element. | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_context"></a> [context](#input\_context) | Single object for setting entire context at once.<br>See description of individual variables for details.<br>Leave string and numeric variables as `null` to use default value.<br>Individual variable settings (non-null) override settings in context object,<br>except for attributes, tags, and additional\_tag\_map, which are merged. | `any` | <pre>{<br>  "additional_tag_map": {},<br>  "attributes": [],<br>  "delimiter": null,<br>  "descriptor_formats": {},<br>  "enabled": true,<br>  "environment": null,<br>  "id_length_limit": null,<br>  "label_key_case": null,<br>  "label_order": [],<br>  "label_value_case": null,<br>  "labels_as_tags": [<br>    "unset"<br>  ],<br>  "name": null,<br>  "namespace": null,<br>  "regex_replace_chars": null,<br>  "stage": null,<br>  "tags": {},<br>  "tenant": null<br>}</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_delimiter"></a> [delimiter](#input\_delimiter) | Delimiter to be used between ID elements.<br>Defaults to `-` (hyphen). Set to `""` to use no delimiter at all. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_descriptor_formats"></a> [descriptor\_formats](#input\_descriptor\_formats) | Describe additional descriptors to be output in the `descriptors` output map.<br>Map of maps. Keys are names of descriptors. Values are maps of the form<br>`{<br>   format = string<br>   labels = list(string)<br>}`<br>(Type is `any` so the map values can later be enhanced to provide additional options.)<br>`format` is a Terraform format string to be passed to the `format()` function.<br>`labels` is a list of labels, in order, to pass to `format()` function.<br>Label values will be normalized before being passed to `format()` so they will be<br>identical to how they appear in `id`.<br>Default is `{}` (`descriptors` output will be empty). | `any` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_dns_soa_config"></a> [dns\_soa\_config](#input\_dns\_soa\_config) | Root domain name DNS SOA record:<br>- awsdns-hostmaster.amazon.com. ; AWS default value for administrator email address<br>- 1 ; serial number, not used by AWS<br>- 7200 ; refresh time in seconds for secondary DNS servers to refreh SOA record<br>- 900 ; retry time in seconds for secondary DNS servers to retry failed SOA record update<br>- 1209600 ; expire time in seconds (1209600 is 2 weeks) for secondary DNS servers to remove SOA record if they cannot refresh it<br>- 60 ; nxdomain TTL, or time in seconds for secondary DNS servers to cache negative responses<br>See [SOA Record Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/Route53/latest/DeveloperGuide/SOA-NSrecords.html) for more information. | `string` | `"awsdns-hostmaster.amazon.com. 1 7200 900 1209600 60"` | no |
| <a name="input_domain_names"></a> [domain\_names](#input\_domain\_names) | Root domain name list, e.g. `["example.net"]` | `list(string)` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_enabled"></a> [enabled](#input\_enabled) | Set to false to prevent the module from creating any resources | `bool` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_environment"></a> [environment](#input\_environment) | ID element. Usually used for region e.g. 'uw2', 'us-west-2', OR role 'prod', 'staging', 'dev', 'UAT' | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_id_length_limit"></a> [id\_length\_limit](#input\_id\_length\_limit) | Limit `id` to this many characters (minimum 6).<br>Set to `0` for unlimited length.<br>Set to `null` for keep the existing setting, which defaults to `0`.<br>Does not affect `id_full`. | `number` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_import_profile_name"></a> [import\_profile\_name](#input\_import\_profile\_name) | AWS Profile name to use when importing a resource | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_import_role_arn"></a> [import\_role\_arn](#input\_import\_role\_arn) | IAM Role ARN to use when importing a resource | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_label_key_case"></a> [label\_key\_case](#input\_label\_key\_case) | Controls the letter case of the `tags` keys (label names) for tags generated by this module.<br>Does not affect keys of tags passed in via the `tags` input.<br>Possible values: `lower`, `title`, `upper`.<br>Default value: `title`. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_label_order"></a> [label\_order](#input\_label\_order) | The order in which the labels (ID elements) appear in the `id`.<br>Defaults to ["namespace", "environment", "stage", "name", "attributes"].<br>You can omit any of the 6 labels ("tenant" is the 6th), but at least one must be present. | `list(string)` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_label_value_case"></a> [label\_value\_case](#input\_label\_value\_case) | Controls the letter case of ID elements (labels) as included in `id`,<br>set as tag values, and output by this module individually.<br>Does not affect values of tags passed in via the `tags` input.<br>Possible values: `lower`, `title`, `upper` and `none` (no transformation).<br>Set this to `title` and set `delimiter` to `""` to yield Pascal Case IDs.<br>Default value: `lower`. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_labels_as_tags"></a> [labels\_as\_tags](#input\_labels\_as\_tags) | Set of labels (ID elements) to include as tags in the `tags` output.<br>Default is to include all labels.<br>Tags with empty values will not be included in the `tags` output.<br>Set to `[]` to suppress all generated tags.<br>**Notes:**<br>  The value of the `name` tag, if included, will be the `id`, not the `name`.<br>  Unlike other `null-label` inputs, the initial setting of `labels_as_tags` cannot be<br>  changed in later chained modules. Attempts to change it will be silently ignored. | `set(string)` | <pre>[<br>  "default"<br>]</pre> | no |
| <a name="input_name"></a> [name](#input\_name) | ID element. Usually the component or solution name, e.g. 'app' or 'jenkins'.<br>This is the only ID element not also included as a `tag`.<br>The "name" tag is set to the full `id` string. There is no tag with the value of the `name` input. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_namespace"></a> [namespace](#input\_namespace) | ID element. Usually an abbreviation of your organization name, e.g. 'eg' or 'cp', to help ensure generated IDs are globally unique | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_record_config"></a> [record\_config](#input\_record\_config) | DNS Record config | <pre>list(object({<br>    root_zone = string<br>    name      = string<br>    type      = string<br>    ttl       = string<br>    records   = list(string)<br>  }))</pre> | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_regex_replace_chars"></a> [regex\_replace\_chars](#input\_regex\_replace\_chars) | Terraform regular expression (regex) string.<br>Characters matching the regex will be removed from the ID elements.<br>If not set, `"/[^a-zA-Z0-9-]/"` is used to remove all characters other than hyphens, letters and digits. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_region"></a> [region](#input\_region) | AWS Region | `string` | n/a | yes |
| <a name="input_request_acm_certificate"></a> [request\_acm\_certificate](#input\_request\_acm\_certificate) | Whether or not to request an ACM certificate for each domain | `bool` | `false` | no |
| <a name="input_stage"></a> [stage](#input\_stage) | ID element. Usually used to indicate role, e.g. 'prod', 'staging', 'source', 'build', 'test', 'deploy', 'release' | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_tags"></a> [tags](#input\_tags) | Additional tags (e.g. `{'BusinessUnit': 'XYZ'}`).<br>Neither the tag keys nor the tag values will be modified by this module. | `map(string)` | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_tenant"></a> [tenant](#input\_tenant) | ID element \_(Rarely used, not included by default)\_. A customer identifier, indicating who this instance of a resource is for | `string` | `null` | no |

## Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_acms"></a> [acms](#output\_acms) | ACM certificates for domains |
| <a name="output_zones"></a> [zones](#output\_zones) | DNS zones |
<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->

## References
* [cloudposse/terraform-aws-components](https://github.com/cloudposse/terraform-aws-components/tree/master/modules/dns-primary) - Cloud Posse's upstream component

[<img src="https://cloudposse.com/logo-300x69.svg" height="32" align="right"/>](https://cpco.io/component)
